readme.md, before:

# Grand Decentral Station — Concept

This is the public repository to write, extend and discuss the concept for Grand Decentral Station. 

You can find more about the current state of the idea on <http://decentralize.it>

Follow Grand Decentral on Twitter for updates: [@grand_decentral](http://twitter.com/grand_decentral)


## The idea

Grand Decentral Station is a open-source server operating system, based on Linux, running a set of predefined software in order to build a common platform for self-hosted, distributed applications and services for the web.

Grand Decentral Station aims at a very broad target group. It aims for perfection in design and user interaction for the system and installed applications that makes it an competitive alternative for closed, hosted services. It's pretty optimistic but possible. 

## About the concept process

Every major part of the concept gets its own markdown file. i.e.

- branding.md
- architecture.md
- apps.md

etc. 

Everyone is invited to fork this repository and work on all parts you feel you have something to contribute to. 

So far there's no fixed structure for those markdown files. If necessary we can agree to a structure later in the process. Just try to keep it readable for everyone.

## Background

The idea for this concept is based on an article by [Bastian Allgeier](http://bastianallgeier.com) written for The Nitty Gritty in January 2013: <http://thenittygritty.co/the-future-of-the-web-a-draft>

Bastian gave a more detailed talk about this at border:none in October 2013: <http://lanyrd.com/2013/border-none/scpxbw/>

## License 

This concept is being released under the MIT license. 
http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php MIT License

## Contributors

For a full list of contributors, check out the contributors.md. **Please add yourself!**

Commit message:

Added ore options to discuss ideas.

readme.md, after:

# Grand Decentral Station — Concept

This is the public repository to write, extend and discuss the concept for Grand Decentral Station. 

You can find more about the current state of the idea on <http://decentralize.it>

- Follow Grand Decentral on Twitter for updates: [@grand_decentral](http://twitter.com/grand_decentral)
- Propose new ideas inside the [issues](https://github.com/grand-decentral-station/concept/issues)
- Chat with us inside our IRC channel: [#decentralize](irc://freenode.net#decentralize) on Freenode

## The idea

Grand Decentral Station is a open-source server operating system, based on Linux, running a set of predefined software in order to build a common platform for self-hosted, distributed applications and services for the web.

Grand Decentral Station aims at a very broad target group. It aims for perfection in design and user interaction for the system and installed applications that makes it an competitive alternative for closed, hosted services. It's pretty optimistic but possible. 

## About the concept process

Every major part of the concept gets its own markdown file. i.e.

- branding.md
- architecture.md
- apps.md

etc. 

Everyone is invited to fork this repository and work on all parts you feel you have something to contribute to. 

So far there's no fixed structure for those markdown files. If necessary we can agree to a structure later in the process. Just try to keep it readable for everyone.

## Background

The idea for this concept is based on an article by [Bastian Allgeier](http://bastianallgeier.com) written for The Nitty Gritty in January 2013: <http://thenittygritty.co/the-future-of-the-web-a-draft>

Bastian gave a more detailed talk about this at border:none in October 2013: <http://lanyrd.com/2013/border-none/scpxbw/>

## License 

This concept is being released under the MIT license. 
http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php MIT License

## Contributors

For a full list of contributors, check out the contributors.md. **Please add yourself!**
