concept/services.md, before:

# Services / Servers

The system would take care of setting up all needed servers. I'm not an expert here, so please take this as an alpha draft from someone with some idealistic ideas :)

All the server technology must not be visible to the end user at any time. This is something that would help to integrate Grand Decentral with existing clients like Mail applications, Address book apps or Calendars on mobile and desktop computers. The system should assist with those integrations as good as it can with providing well-written instructions for various setups or even step-by-step on-screen instructions. 

## Email

Sending and receiving emails should work out of the box. It needs an easy way to setup email addresses, inboxes and redirects. This should not be any more complicated than configuring email addresses on iOS. 

The email app comes with auto discovery for account settings in your client with automx.org (requires wildcard SSL certificate for subdomains). For security reasons, only encrypted connections are allowed. Optional, a function to easily create and manage GPG signatures for various mail accounts should be possible.

### Containers

- email-server
- email-storage
- email-webmail

## Calendar and Contacts

The calendar and contacs app consists of a simple CalDAV server, which also allows to expose the owner's contact details as a vCard.

### Containers

- caldav-server
- caldav-storage

## Avatar server

It allows to associate avatars to single mail addresses or whole domains, like Gravatar and exposes an API for avatar discoverability.

### Containers

- avatar-server
- avatar-storage

### Connects to

- Email app (discovery of hosted addresses)

## File server

Allows storing/sharing of files. Either via NFS/SMB in an internal network (showing up as network drives), SFTP on a web interface (like Dropbox or Owncloud). Ideally, files should be versioned/backed up automatically (e.g with something like Time Machine).

### Containers

- file-server
- file-storage
- file-webinterface

### Connects to

- Calendar and contacts (contacts for sharing files with)

## Web server

Meta container for offering to host own websites and applications. It contains sub-containers for installing web-applications like blogs, forums, analytics, etc.

## Communications

Chat services (based on XMPP) or video/screen sharing (via WebRTC)

### Containers

- communications-server

### Connects to

- Calendar and contacts (contacts for chatting)

## SSH server

This is a pretty important feature if the user is a tech expert and something breaks - but it should be available as a separate app, of course!

It should be as simple as possible and should only work with SSH key authentication - before being able to use the SSH login, the user would have to add his/her SSH public key to the web interface like GitHub.

There should be a shell providing all web interface features as a nice CLI.

This is rather optional and not required at the beginning, but would be a nice feature for power users.

## Discovery & monitoring server

This is an optional (= the user will have to install it) application used to build a network between Grand Decentral Stations.  
The server itself works just like a DNS server: It builds an index of all known devices and syncs it from other discovery & uptime servers.

A new GDS can get into this network by communicating once with at least one other GDS (for example when sharing something).  
The other GDS (like *every* GDS even without a discovery & monitoring server) has a list of some discovery & monitoring servers (it will get to know them at the point when it communicates with them or when it gets pinged by one of them) and broadcasts the new information about the new GDS to some of them where the data is cached and can be retrieved by any GDS.

The data collected about each GDS would be:

- the URL pointing to the GDS
- the current status of the GDS (shut down, offline, running)
- a list of "mentoring servers" (see below)

This index is rebuilt every specific amount of time (for example every day at a random time) by pinging each GDS in the index.  
By using a random time (or rebuilding the index when idle for example), each GDS would be checked more than once a day by multiple servers at different times - this would result in a high crowdsourced frequency of checks.

The admin of the discovery & monitoring server could define shorter intervals for specific domains of friends etc.  
If a GDS is down for more than a week or so, it gets removed from the index and the process starts from the beginning.

### Monitoring server

A possible additional amazing feature made possible by this application is a monitoring server notifying the admin of the GDS that his/her GDS is down.

That's where the "mentoring servers" come into play:  
If a user wants to enable the uptime monitoring functionality, he/she has to define a list of "mentoring servers" in the GDS administration panel. These are discovery & monitoring servers hosted either by

- friends *or*
- dedicated fee-based monitoring services

These mentoring servers would keep an alternative email address (at another GDS/VPS/shared hosting/Gmail/Hotmail/whatever) to contact the admin of the GDS if it is down.

The process would be the following: When any discovery & monitoring server finds out about a downtime of the GDS while rebuilding its index, it notifies a random different discovery & monitoring server located at a different part of the world.

If the different server can reproduce that the GDS is down, this chain continues 5 times. If the server is up from any of these servers, the chain stops and everything goes back to normal.  
The fifth discovery & monitoring server now pings one of the mentoring servers of the user (multiple if one is down) and tells it that the domain is down.

The mentoring server then checks again and if it can also reproduce this, it sends an email (or whatever communication channel the mentoring server implements) to the alternative email address of the admin.  
It then remembers that it sent that email and will refuse to send another one until the GDS was up in between. The other mentoring servers will get a message about it as well to prevent multiple emails.

The mentoring servers are needed to

- a) keep the email address secret to avoid spam
- b) prevent tons of emails by tons of discovery & uptime servers

#### UI for the uptime server

The mentoring servers would keep the information about when and how long a GDS was down to present nice statistics about the uptime.  
These statistics would be available at a common API, so they can be shown right in the GDS' administration panel.

### Motivation

Of course, the motivation to install a discovery & mentoring server might not be that high as it consumes a lot of traffic and computing power.

A way to motivate people would be monetizing found downtimes by letting the admin of the tracked GDS define a budget for every email which would be divided among all involved servers.

This would probably lead to people modifying the software to claim that *every* GDS is down to save resources. The only way to fix this is a large number of discovery & monitoring servers - some of them will still confirm that the server is up. This would stop the chain and the cheaters wouldn't have success.

### Spam problem

A big problem of this idea is spam or hacks coming from a huge public list of GDS boxes.

An example for this is the Synology DynDNS service at `*.synology.me`.  
Chinese hackers try to hack into port 22 of machines referenced at these subdomains to gain access to the DiskStations (or whyever).

We need to think about this problem as it could be a killer for the whole feature.

### More information

There's a discussion in [Issue #24](https://github.com/grand-decentral-station/concept/issues/24) about this.

Commit message:

Add more information about the web server

concept/services.md, after:

# Services / Servers

The system would take care of setting up all needed servers. I'm not an expert here, so please take this as an alpha draft from someone with some idealistic ideas :)

All the server technology must not be visible to the end user at any time. This is something that would help to integrate Grand Decentral with existing clients like Mail applications, Address book apps or Calendars on mobile and desktop computers. The system should assist with those integrations as good as it can with providing well-written instructions for various setups or even step-by-step on-screen instructions. 

## Email

Sending and receiving emails should work out of the box. It needs an easy way to setup email addresses, inboxes and redirects. This should not be any more complicated than configuring email addresses on iOS. 

The email app comes with auto discovery for account settings in your client with automx.org (requires wildcard SSL certificate for subdomains). For security reasons, only encrypted connections are allowed. Optional, a function to easily create and manage GPG signatures for various mail accounts should be possible.

### Containers

- email-server
- email-storage
- email-webmail

## Calendar and Contacts

The calendar and contacs app consists of a simple CalDAV server, which also allows to expose the owner's contact details as a vCard.

### Containers

- caldav-server
- caldav-storage

## Avatar server

It allows to associate avatars to single mail addresses or whole domains, like Gravatar and exposes an API for avatar discoverability.

### Containers

- avatar-server
- avatar-storage

### Connects to

- Email app (discovery of hosted addresses)

## File server

Allows storing/sharing of files. Either via NFS/SMB in an internal network (showing up as network drives), SFTP on a web interface (like Dropbox or Owncloud). Ideally, files should be versioned/backed up automatically (e.g with something like Time Machine).

### Containers

- file-server
- file-storage
- file-webinterface

### Connects to

- Calendar and contacts (contacts for sharing files with)

## Web server

Meta container for offering to host own websites and applications. It contains sub-containers for installing web-applications like blogs, forums, analytics, etc.

As there will be multiple web apps listening on the same ports 80 and 443, there has to be a central server routing all requests to the correct app.  
An example of a simple and slim router is [Pound](http://www.apsis.ch/pound/).

Every app would be able to register a URL with a random port only listening locally.
To host basic stuff, an additional "web server" package featuring a LAMP stack could be offered.

An additional advantage of a central web router is the ability to store SSL certificates centrally in the system.

## Communications

Chat services (based on XMPP) or video/screen sharing (via WebRTC)

### Containers

- communications-server

### Connects to

- Calendar and contacts (contacts for chatting)

## SSH server

This is a pretty important feature if the user is a tech expert and something breaks - but it should be available as a separate app, of course!

It should be as simple as possible and should only work with SSH key authentication - before being able to use the SSH login, the user would have to add his/her SSH public key to the web interface like GitHub.

There should be a shell providing all web interface features as a nice CLI.

This is rather optional and not required at the beginning, but would be a nice feature for power users.

## Discovery & monitoring server

This is an optional (= the user will have to install it) application used to build a network between Grand Decentral Stations.  
The server itself works just like a DNS server: It builds an index of all known devices and syncs it from other discovery & uptime servers.

A new GDS can get into this network by communicating once with at least one other GDS (for example when sharing something).  
The other GDS (like *every* GDS even without a discovery & monitoring server) has a list of some discovery & monitoring servers (it will get to know them at the point when it communicates with them or when it gets pinged by one of them) and broadcasts the new information about the new GDS to some of them where the data is cached and can be retrieved by any GDS.

The data collected about each GDS would be:

- the URL pointing to the GDS
- the current status of the GDS (shut down, offline, running)
- a list of "mentoring servers" (see below)

This index is rebuilt every specific amount of time (for example every day at a random time) by pinging each GDS in the index.  
By using a random time (or rebuilding the index when idle for example), each GDS would be checked more than once a day by multiple servers at different times - this would result in a high crowdsourced frequency of checks.

The admin of the discovery & monitoring server could define shorter intervals for specific domains of friends etc.  
If a GDS is down for more than a week or so, it gets removed from the index and the process starts from the beginning.

### Monitoring server

A possible additional amazing feature made possible by this application is a monitoring server notifying the admin of the GDS that his/her GDS is down.

That's where the "mentoring servers" come into play:  
If a user wants to enable the uptime monitoring functionality, he/she has to define a list of "mentoring servers" in the GDS administration panel. These are discovery & monitoring servers hosted either by

- friends *or*
- dedicated fee-based monitoring services

These mentoring servers would keep an alternative email address (at another GDS/VPS/shared hosting/Gmail/Hotmail/whatever) to contact the admin of the GDS if it is down.

The process would be the following: When any discovery & monitoring server finds out about a downtime of the GDS while rebuilding its index, it notifies a random different discovery & monitoring server located at a different part of the world.

If the different server can reproduce that the GDS is down, this chain continues 5 times. If the server is up from any of these servers, the chain stops and everything goes back to normal.  
The fifth discovery & monitoring server now pings one of the mentoring servers of the user (multiple if one is down) and tells it that the domain is down.

The mentoring server then checks again and if it can also reproduce this, it sends an email (or whatever communication channel the mentoring server implements) to the alternative email address of the admin.  
It then remembers that it sent that email and will refuse to send another one until the GDS was up in between. The other mentoring servers will get a message about it as well to prevent multiple emails.

The mentoring servers are needed to

- a) keep the email address secret to avoid spam
- b) prevent tons of emails by tons of discovery & uptime servers

#### UI for the uptime server

The mentoring servers would keep the information about when and how long a GDS was down to present nice statistics about the uptime.  
These statistics would be available at a common API, so they can be shown right in the GDS' administration panel.

### Motivation

Of course, the motivation to install a discovery & mentoring server might not be that high as it consumes a lot of traffic and computing power.

A way to motivate people would be monetizing found downtimes by letting the admin of the tracked GDS define a budget for every email which would be divided among all involved servers.

This would probably lead to people modifying the software to claim that *every* GDS is down to save resources. The only way to fix this is a large number of discovery & monitoring servers - some of them will still confirm that the server is up. This would stop the chain and the cheaters wouldn't have success.

### Spam problem

A big problem of this idea is spam or hacks coming from a huge public list of GDS boxes.

An example for this is the Synology DynDNS service at `*.synology.me`.  
Chinese hackers try to hack into port 22 of machines referenced at these subdomains to gain access to the DiskStations (or whyever).

We need to think about this problem as it could be a killer for the whole feature.

### More information

There's a discussion in [Issue #24](https://github.com/grand-decentral-station/concept/issues/24) about this.
